hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions we're going to
construct a hexagon as follows
start with the parallelogram and then
join its mirror image as follows let
these two sides have a length of X let
this angle be have a measure of 30
degrees now Mark points P and Q such
that B P is equal to B Q is equal to 10
the question is to solve for the cosine
of angle P P Q in terms of the variable
X this problem is adapted from the 2017
GCSE exam and I had many people request
me to make a video on this problem going
back two years ago I think Tom Ben and
James for suggesting this problem if
you'd like to give it a try pause the
video right now when you're ready you
can keep watching to check your answer
or to learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
so in order to solve this problem we're
gonna need the following formula from
geometry start with the triangle which
has side lengths a b and c and angles a
B and C where the angles are capital
letters this formula is always true C
squared is equal to a squared plus B
squared minus 2 multiplied by a times B
times the cosine of angle C this is
commonly called the law of cosines but
in my research I found the following
interesting fact in France the law of
cosines is named the theorem of alka she
as Alki she was the first to provide an
explicit statement of the law of cosines
in a form suitable for triangulation I
think it would be appropriate to call
this the theorem of alka she or al-qasas
theorem and i'm gonna try and do that
from now on so this problem is all about
Alki she's theorem let's get started
we're first gonna solve for P Q squared
now to do that we'll translate this
length vertically so that we form a
triangle now using the theorem of alka
she we get P Q squared is equal to x
squared plus x squared minus two x x
times x times the cosine of the angle in
between which is 30 degrees we simplify
this and then we factor this so here P Q
squared is equal to x squared multiplied
by the quantity 2 minus the square root
of 3 we're now going to get another
expression for P Q squared instead we're
going to use this triangle b PQ now
focus on just this triangle and recall
that these lengths are 10 now using
al-qasas theorem we get that P Q squared
is equal to 10 squared plus 10 squared
minus 2 multiplied by 10 times 10 times
the cosine of angle P B Q we then
simplify this and we get P Q squared is
equal to 200 - 200 cosine of P B Q so we
now have two different expressions for P
Q squared we're going to set them equal
to each other we now subtract
200 from both sides and then divide by
negative 200 to solve that the cosine of
pbq is equal to one minus x squared
multiplied by the quantity 2 minus the
square root of 3 all over 200 and that's
our answer thanks for watching and for
making minor decisions one of the best
channels on YouTube thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]